---
title: v3.0.0
description: Release notes for v3.0.0.
relatedPages:
  - path: /docs/sitemap/releases/v4
    title: Nuxt Sitemap v4.0.0
  - path: /docs/sitemap/getting-started/installation
    title: Install Nuxt Sitemap
  - path: /docs/site-config/getting-started/introduction
    title: Nuxt Site Config
---

## Features :rocket:

### 🤝 Stable I18n Integration

Fully supporting i18n sites through the `sitemap` module has been a long requested feature.

V2 partially supported it, but in v3 support is fully integrated with build-time macros support and more.

### 🚀 Default Caching

Caching is now enabled by default for production sitemaps. Sitemaps will be cached for 1 hour.

You can change the cache time or disable caching by setting the `cacheTtl` config.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    cacheTtl: 5 * 60 * 60 * 1000 // 5 hours
  }
})
```

You can also provide your own cache instance by setting the `runtimeCacheStorage` config.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    runtimeCacheStorage: {
      driver: 'redis',
      host: 'localhost',
      port: 6379,
      db: 0,
    }
  }
})
```

Learn more on the [Performance](/docs/sitemap/advanced/performance) guide.

### Improved XML Stylesheet

The UI of the sitemap.xml page has been improved slightly. It now features more useful tips and links.

You can also customize the stylesheet with the new following config:
- `xslTips` - Toggle the tips displayed on the sitemap.xml pages.
- `xslColumns` - Customize the columns displayed on the sitemap.xml pages.

For example, you can change the columns to only show the `loc` and `lastmod` columns.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    xslColumns: [
      // URL column must always be set, no value needed
      { label: 'URL', width: '75%' },
      { label: 'Last Modified', value: 'sitemap:lastmod', width: '25%' },
    ],
  },
})
```

Learn more on the [Customizing the UI](/docs/sitemap/advanced/customising-ui) guide.

### Debug Mode

A `debug` config has been added
which will give access to a custom endpoint at `/api/__sitemap__/debug` which will show you
how your sitemap is being generated.

When you build your site with debug on, a `/__sitemap__/debug.json` page will be generated.

This is disabled by default and should only be enabled for debugging purposes.

## Other Improvements

## New Hook: `sitemap:output`

**Type:** `async (ctx: { sitemap: string; sitemapName: string }) => void | Promise<void>`

This will let you modify the string content of the final sitemap before it is returned from the server.

Can be run in both Nitro (runtime) and Nuxt (prerendering).

## New Hook: `sitemap:resolved`

**Type:** `async (ctx: { sitemap: FullSitemapEntry[]; sitemapName: string }) => void | Promise<void>`

This will let you modify the final sitemap before it is turned into a string.

Can be run in both Nitro (runtime) and Nuxt (prerendering).

### Individual multi-sitemap API endpoints `dynamicUrlsApiEndpoint`

- Type: `boolean | string`{lang="ts"}
- Default: `false`{lang="ts"}

You can now give each sitemap a unique API endpoint to fetch URLs from.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    sitemaps: {
      foo: {
        dynamicUrlsApiEndpoint: '/api/foo-sitemap'
      },
      bar: {
        dynamicUrlsApiEndpoint: '/api/bar-sitemap'
      },
    },
  }
})
```

### New Config: `strictNuxtContentPaths`

- Type: `boolean`{lang="ts"}
- Default: `false`{lang="ts"}

Enable when the paths of your nuxt/content md files match the routing.

This will automatically add sitemap content to the sitemap.

This is similar behavior to using `nuxt/content` with `documentDriven: true`.

### New Config: `credits`

- Type: `boolean`{lang="ts"}
- Default: `true`{lang="ts"}

Allows you to remove the "Generated by @nuxtjs/sitemap" comment from the generated sitemap.

### New Config: `xslTips`

- Type: `boolean`{lang="ts"}
- Default: `true`{lang="ts"}

Toggle the tips displayed on the sitemap.xml pages.

## Deprecation

- `trailingSlash` has been deprecated
- `siteUrl` has been deprecated
- `autoAlternativeLangPrefixes` is now disabled by default. If you want to enable it, you need to set it to `true` explicitly.
