---
title: I18n
description: Setting up a sitemap with Nuxt I18n and Nuxt I18n Micro.
---

## Introduction

Out of the box, the module integrates with [@nuxtjs/i18n](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) and [nuxt-i18n-micro](https://github.com/s00d/nuxt-i18n-micro)
without any extra configuration.

However, I18n is tricky, you may need to tinker with a few options to get the best results.

## I18n Modes

### Automatic I18n Multi Sitemap

When certain conditions are met then the sitemap module will automatically generate a sitemap for each locale:
- If you're not using `no_prefix` strategy
- Or if you're using [Different Domains](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/docs/v7/different-domains),
- And you haven't configured the `sitemaps` option

This looks like:
```shell
> ./sitemap_index.xml
> ./en-sitemap.xml
> ./fr-sitemap.xml
# ...etc
```

These sitemaps will include [app sources](/docs/sitemap/getting-started/data-sources). The `nuxt:pages` source
will automatically determine the correct `alternatives` for your pages.

If you need to opt-out of app sources, use `excludeAppSources: true`.

### I18n Pages

If you have enabled `i18n.pages` in your i18n configuration, then the sitemap module will automatically generate a single sitemap
using the configuration.

This sitemap will not include [app sources](/docs/sitemap/getting-started/data-sources).

You can add additional URLs using `sources`.

## Dynamic URLs with i18n

To simplify the sitemap output, any dynamic URLs you provided will not have i18n data and will exist
only within the default locale sitemap.

To help you with this, the module provides two options: `_i18nTransform` and `_sitemap`.

### `_i18nTransform`

If you want the module to convert a single URL into all of its i18n variants, you can provide the `_i18nTransform: true` option.

```ts [server/api/__sitemap__/urls.ts]
export default defineSitemapEventHandler(() => {
  return [
    {
      loc: '/about-us',
      // will be transformed into /en/about-us and /fr/about-us
      _i18nTransform: true,
    }
  ]
})
```

### `_sitemap`

Alternatively, you can specify which locale sitemap you want to include the URL in using `_sitemap`.

```ts [server/api/__sitemap__/urls.ts]
export default defineSitemapEventHandler(() => {
  return [
    {
      loc: '/about-us',
      _sitemap: 'en',
    }
  ]
})
```

## Debugging Hreflang

By default, the XML stylesheet doesn't show you the hreflang tags. You will need to view the page source to see them.

Don't worry, these are still visible to search engines.

If you'd like to visually see the hreflang tag counts, you can [Customise the UI](/docs/sitemap/guides/customising-ui).

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    xslColumns: [
      { label: 'URL', width: '50%' },
      { label: 'Last Modified', select: 'sitemap:lastmod', width: '25%' },
      { label: 'Hreflangs', select: 'count(xhtml)', width: '25%' },
    ],
  }
})
```
