---
title: Sitemap Performance
description: Use the default cache engine to keep your sitemaps fast.
---

## Introduction

For apps with 100k+ pages, generating a sitemap can be a slow process. As robots will request your sitemap frequently, it's important to keep it fast.

Nuxt SEO provides a default cache engine to keep your sitemaps fast and recommendations on how to improve performance.

## Performance Recommendations

When dealing with many URLs that are being generated from an external API, the best option is use the `sitemaps`
option to create [Named Sitemap Chunks](/sitemap/guides/multi-sitemaps).

Each sitemap should contain its own `sources`, this allows other sitemaps to be generated without waiting for this request.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    sitemaps: {
      posts: {
        sources: [
          'https://api.something.com/urls'
        ]
      },
    },
  },
})
```

If you need to split this up further, you should consider chunking by the type and some pagination format. For example,
you can paginate by when posts were created.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    sitemaps: {
      posts2020: {
        sources: [
          'https://api.something.com/urls?filter[yearCreated]=2020'
        ]
      },
      posts2021: {
        sources: [
          'https://api.something.com/urls?filter[yearCreated]=2021'
        ]
      },
    },
  },
})
```

Additionally, you may want to consider the following experimental options that may help with performance:
- `experimentalCompression` - Gzip's and streams the sitemap
- `experimentalWarmUp` - Creates the sitemaps when Nitro starts

## Sitemap Caching

Caching your sitemap can help reduce the load on your server and improve performance.

By default, SWR caching is enabled on production environments and sitemaps will be cached for 10 minutes.

This is configured by overriding your route rules and leveraging the native Nuxt caching.

### Cache Time

You can change the cache time by setting the `cacheMaxAgeSeconds` option.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    cacheMaxAgeSeconds: 3600 // 1 hour
  }
})
```

If you want to disable caching, set the `cacheMaxAgeSeconds` to `0`.

### Cache Driver

The cache engine is set to the Nitro default of the `cache/` path.

If you want to customise the cache engine, you can set the `runtimeCacheStorage` option.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  sitemap: {
    // cloudflare kv binding example
    runtimeCacheStorage: {
      driver: 'cloudflare-kv-binding',
      binding: 'OG_IMAGE_CACHE'
    }
  }
})
```
