---
title: 'Install Nuxt Sitemap'
description: 'Get started with Nuxt Sitemap by installing the dependency to your project.'
navigation:
  title: 'Installation'
relatedPages:
  - path: /docs/sitemap/getting-started/data-sources
    title: Data Sources
  - path: /docs/robots/getting-started/installation
    title: Nuxt Robots
  - path: /docs/site-config/getting-started/installation
    title: Nuxt Site Config
---

## Setup Module

Want to know why you might need this module? Check out the [introduction](/docs/sitemap/getting-started/introduction).

To get started with Nuxt Sitemap, you need to install the dependency and add it to your Nuxt config.

:ModuleInstall{name="@nuxtjs/sitemap"}

## Verifying Installation

After you've set up the module with the minimal config, you should be able to visit [`/sitemap.xml`](http://localhost:3000/sitemap.xml) to see the generated sitemap.

You may notice that the URLs point to your `localhost` domain, this is to make navigating your local site easier, and will be updated when you deploy your site.

All pages preset are discovered from your [Application Sources](/docs/sitemap/getting-started/data-sources), for dynamic URLs see [Dynamic URLs](/docs/sitemap/guides/dynamic-urls).

You can debug this further in Nuxt DevTools under the Sitemap tab.

## Configuration

At a minimum the module requires a Site URL to be set, this is to only your canonical domain is being used for
the sitemap. A site name can also be provided to customize the sitemap [stylesheet](/docs/sitemap/advanced/customising-ui).

::warning
Without a Site URL, your sitemap will use localhost in production.
::

:SiteConfigQuickSetup

To ensure search engines find your sitemap, you will need to add it to your robots.txt. It's recommended to use the [Nuxt Robots](/docs/robots/getting-started/installation) module for this.

:ModuleCard{slug="robots" class="w-1/2"}

Every site is different and will require their own further unique configuration, to give you a head start:

- [Dynamic URL Endpoint](/docs/sitemap/guides/dynamic-urls) - If you have dynamic URLs you need to add to the sitemap, you can use a runtime API endpoint. For example, if your
generating your site from a CMS.
- [Multi Sitemaps](/docs/sitemap/guides/multi-sitemaps) - If you have 10k+ pages, you may want to split your sitemap into multiple files
so that search engines can process them more efficiently.

You do not need to worry about any further configuration in most cases, check the [best practices](/docs/sitemap/guides/best-practices) guide for more information.

## Next Steps

You've successfully installed Nuxt Sitemap. Here's the recommended reading path:

1. **[Data Sources](/docs/sitemap/getting-started/data-sources)** - Understand where your sitemap URLs come from
2. **[Dynamic URLs](/docs/sitemap/guides/dynamic-urls)** - Add URLs from a CMS or database
3. **[Best Practices](/docs/sitemap/guides/best-practices)** - Ensure your sitemap follows SEO guidelines

**Using other Nuxt modules?**
- [Nuxt I18n](/docs/sitemap/guides/i18n) - Automatic locale sitemaps
- [Nuxt Content](/docs/sitemap/guides/content) - Configure sitemap from markdown frontmatter

**Ready to deploy?** Check out [Submitting Your Sitemap](/docs/sitemap/guides/submitting-sitemap).
